three things to do with files used in python

1. open the file - opening the file creates a connection between your program and the file. Opening an 
OUTPUT FILE usually creates a file on the disk that allows the program to write data to it.

Opening an INPUT FILE allows the program to read data from the file.

2. process the file - In this step data is either written to the file (if it is an output file),
or it is read from the file (if it is an input file).
3. close the file so the system is no longer using it. - When the program is finished using it, the file must
be closed. Closing it disconnects it from the program.

                        Types of files

Generally there are two types: Text Files and Binary Files.

Text Files store data as plaintext that can be seen when the user opens the file in a program like Notepad.
These text files store data using a scheme like ASCII or Unicode.

Binary files store data that has not been converted into text, and therefore cannot be seen if the file
is opened up in a notepad program or other kind of text editor.

                        File Access Methods

There are two ways to access data in a file: Sequential access and random access.

Sequential Access Files will read data from the start of the file all the way to the end in sequence; as a
consequence, if you want to read data at the end of the file, it has to read everything else contained in it
first in sequence. Similar to a cassette tape or VHS or film strip.

Direct Access Files allow you to access data in any order randomly - it's also known as a Random Access File.
You can jump directly to whatever piece of data you want. Similar to a MP3 or CD.

                        Filenames and objects.

Filenames are usually named based off the operating system your computer uses. they'll suffix Filenames
with .txt or .csv or .doc at the end of a file, and that specifies the extension of the file.

In order for your file to work with the computer's disk, it must make a file object in memory.
A File Object is an object associated with a specific file and provides a way for the program to work
with that file.

In python we might do this with the following statement to open a file:

file_variable = open(filename, mode)

file_variable is the variable name used to manipulate and reference the File Object.
filename is a string specifying the name of the file.
mode is the string specifying the mode (read,write, open) that the file will be opened for.

file entries are delimited by newline characters. You'll need to enter + '\n' to them to separate them.

When assigning lines of a file to a variable, you will want to trim the '\n' character out

use the .rstrip('\n') statement for this.

                        Working with undetermined number of entries in a file

Python's readline() method returns '' which is an empty string when it has attempted to read past the end
of a file. This makes it possible to write a while loop to process an entire file and find the end of file
marker for that file.
